Add monitoring.yml page (#470)
getsolus/help-center-docs: docs/packaging/monitoring2.yml.md

Checking for new releases is done by mapping the Solus package to an [Anitya](https://github.com/fedora-infra/anitya) ID. _Anitya_ is a Red Hat project, part of [release-monitoring.org](https://release-monitoring.org/)

Checking for security advisories ([CVEs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Vulnerabilities_and_Exposures)), is done by mapping the Solus package to a _Common Platform Enumeration Name_ ([CPE](https://nvd.nist.gov/products/cpe)) from the National Vulnerability Database.

## systemd as an example

Let's look at the `monitoring.yml` file for `systemd` as an example.

The `systemd` directory in the Packages repository looks like this:

```text
systemd
├── monitoring.yml
├── package.yml
├── pspec_x86_64.xml
└── *lots of other files we can ignore*
```

The `monitoring.yml` looks like this:

```yaml
releases:
  id: 205088
  ignore:
    # We only update to the n-1 stable release. So for now we're only interested in 252.x updates
    - "253.*"
  rss: [todo proper rss link]
security:
  cpe:
    - vendor: systemd_project
      product: systemd
    - vendor: freedesktop
      product: systemd
  ignore:
    - CVE-2022-55555
```

## "releases" fields

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fields used to monitor for new versions: 

```

| Field    | Type                        | Required ?              | Description                                                                                                                    |
| -------- | --------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `id`     | integer                     | Yes                     | Anitya ID from [release-monitoring.org](https://release-monitoring.org/)                                                       |

> | `ignore` | list of regular expressions | No                      | List of regular expression matching versions to ignore. Include a comment explaining the ignored versions. Enclose in quotes   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ignore` | list of regular expressions | No                      | List of regular expressions enclosed in quotes matching versions to ignore. Include a comment explaining the ignored versions. |
```

| `rss`    | URL                         | No, strongly encouraged | URL for a releases RSS feed. If the only RSS feed you can find for a project is a general "news" feed, don't include the field |

> - Fields used to monitor for new versions

Reviewer: Use this sentence as the intro sentence of the table.
```suggestion

```

### Finding the Anitya ID

> You can find the Anitya ID by searching [release-monitoring.org](https://release-monitoring.org/) by project name, then taking the ID out of the URL for the correct search result. For example, the correct `systemd` search result for us is `systemd-stable` with the URL [https://release-monitoring.org/project/205088/](https://release-monitoring.org/project/205088/), so we use `205088` in the `id field`

Reviewer: Split this in two paragraphs:

```suggestion
To find the Anitya ID, search [release-monitoring.org](https://release-monitoring.org/) by project name, then take the ID out of the URL for the correct search result. 

For example, the correct `systemd` search result for us is `systemd-stable` with the URL [https://release-monitoring.org/project/205088/](https://release-monitoring.org/project/205088/), so we use `205088` in the `id` field
```

## "security" fields

> 

Reviewer: Add a introductory sentence for the table:

```suggestion
Fields used to monitor for security advisories (CVEs)

```

| Field    | Type            | Required ? | Description                                                                         |
| -------- | --------------- | ---------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `cpe`    | list            | Yes        | List of `vendor:product` pairs from a full CPE name. CVEs for a given project may be published under more than one CPE; include more than one if that is likely.                            |

> | `ignore` | list of strings | No         | List of specific CVE identifiers which can be ignored. Todo: do we include reasons? |

Reviewer: I think it would be good to clarify in which situations a CVE can be ignored.

Author: done

### What is a CPE Name?

> A [CPE Name](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Platform_Enumeration) is a structured naming scheme for information technology systems, primarily used to search for CVEs. A full CPE Name contains redundant information we can ignore, we are only interested in `vendor` and `product`

Reviewer: - Split in two paragraphs.
- Since CPE names don't have any visible "vendor" or "product" fields, there's no need to format them as code.

```suggestion
A [CPE Name](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Platform_Enumeration) is a structured naming scheme for information technology systems, primarily used to search for CVEs. 

CPE names contain redundant information we can ignore, we are only interested in the vendor and the product.
```

> For example, `cpe:2.3:a:systemd_project:systemd` is the CPE for the _vendor_ `systemd_project`, and the _product_ `systemd`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, `cpe:2.3:a:systemd_project:systemd` is the CPE for the _vendor_ `systemd_project`, and the _product_ `systemd`.
```

```bash
curl -s -X POST https://cpe-guesser.cve-search.org/search -d "{\"query\": [\"systemd\"]}" | jq .
```

If you have our [helper functions](/docs/packaging/prepare-for-packaging#set-up-monorepo-helper-functions-optional) installed, you can use the following command:

```bash
cpesearch systemd
```

:::tip

Convert your search term to lower case and try variations on the search term if you get no results. The CPE search is not a "fuzzy" search.

:::

The command returns the following:

```text
[
  [
    49192,
    "cpe:2.3:a:ubuntu_developers:systemd"
  ],
  [
    116392,
    "cpe:2.3:a:lennart_poettering:systemd"
  ],
  [
    120506,
    "cpe:2.3:a:freedesktop:systemd"
  ],
  [
    120627,
    "cpe:2.3:a:systemd_project:systemd"
  ]
]
```

Ignore the numerical ids, let's walk through the CPEs by vendor:

- `ubuntu_developers` is for `systemd` patched by Ubuntu; we can ignore it
- `lennart_poettering` is for the main `systemd` developer and is probably a bleeding edge vendor; ignore it
- `freedesktop` is from freedesktop.org and is a good candidate, so we add it
- `systemd_project` is a good candidate, so we add it

### No known CPE

> It is possible that an established product has not had a security advisory in the past, and therefore **does not have a CPE**; please ask on Matrix if you are unsure. In that case, include an empty `security` and `cpe` field with a comment in the following format:

Reviewer: - Split this in two paragraphs.
- I think the recommendation of asking in Matrix can be in an admonition.

```suggestion
If an established product hasn't had a security advisory in the past, it might not have a CPE. 

In that case, include an empty `security` and `cpe` field with a comment in the following format:
```

```yaml
# No known CPE, checked 20240123
security:
  cpe: ~

> ```

Reviewer: Note: I'm not suggesting to delete the code block, but I didn't find another way to use the suggestion feature lol

```suggestion
:::tip

If you are unsure of what to do in this case, feel free to ask in the Solus' Matrix space.

:::
```
